## Introduction To Kado: Transition From Learning To Coding
*by Justin Fowler on 09/09/2019*


### Introduction

Starting off, having no knowledge of HTML, JavaScript, and CSS, made being a Web
Developer seem too advanced and so far out of my reach. Just thinking about it
seemed bleak and not worth the try. I figured if I needed a website built, why
not hire someone to build it for me right? I feel like I was among the majority
of people who felt this way, until I was introduced to a program that would
eventually change my way of thinking.

### Codecademy

In November of 2018 I began using a free Website called Codecademy. I started
off with HTML, and this deployed me in to the world of  Web Developing. This was
perfect for me. The basics,  with a simple understanding of how to write it.
Codecademy is a very interactive program. It’s filled with literature to help
you understand the code you’re learning, how to write it properly, and comes
equipped with a practice terminal so you can write code along with your lessons.
Upon completion of a lesson there is usually a project that you get to build,
(or debug) using knowledge of what you just learned. Then its followed up by a
multiple choice quiz, or quizzes. This program was a great start for me. Of
course at times, there were struggles. Fortunately Codecademy has video
tutorials, and even offers human tutoring for a small fee. 

Before I knew it, I completed the HTML course! I advanced to the CSS course,
then made my way to JavaScript soon after. I was beginning to understand the
purpose each of these languages served, and how to write them efficiently.
Coming from a Web Development background which held no experience what-so-ever,
to writing clean code and seeing results, really surprised me. It made me feel
like I could conquer the world. It was around this time I was introduced to
Kado and started the Journey I’m on today. 

### Using Kado

My transition into Kado from Codecademy was intimidating at first. I felt like
there was a lot of steps to follow to get the installation process going. Being
so fresh, I doubted my ability to be able to get the desired result. I was
definitely hesitant to get the ball rolling. After viewing the docs on Kado.org,
I realized they were written in a descriptive manor, which would help getting
Kado installed on my laptop. After following the steps, I had Kado running and
ready for use. Still though, I was only used to practicing code in a “safe zone,
on Codecademy. Actually seeing it all in front of me the way it was presented,
was a lot to take in at a glance. So many files. So much code. Not to mention
this being my first time using Webstorm. I felt like I had a lot to learn before
I even got started. Nevertheless, I asked my team to educate me on  the basics
of Webstorm to help get me on my way. 

### Project Magic

The more I dove into Kado, I realized it used everything I’had learned in my
Codecademy lessons. This started to relieve my hesitation and nervousness I’had
been feeling. I remember the first file I played around with, was an HTML file.
I was clicking around and making words bold and italic, I even turned my page
into a dark theme! It was fun. I remember thinking...How cool is this. I am
actually doing it. Eventually my team got me started on Magic. This is a project
we are currently building using Kado. This is where I really get to use my
JavaScript skills I’d learned from Codecademy! Since I’ve been working with
Magic on Kado,  I’ve worked on Datatables, which order data and hold information
that uses JavaScript to get and pass information to. I’ve worked on HTML to add
forms, and edit text on the Web page. I’ve used CSS to color pages, and make
drop down effects for boxes. And most importantly I've been able to find and
debug issues easily, using Kado. 

### Summary

To put it simply. From a beginners point of view, Kado may be intimidating to
look at, but it is a very easy program to use. It has been a blast getting to
know the program and use it for Web Developing. I am so glad that I took this
route to get where I am today, and I’m looking forward to seeing what my future
holds as I build with Kado! I would recommend to anyone to try out this program.
Whether you have a solid background in Developing or your just getting started
out, Kado is the way to go. 
